## MDDN 242 Project 1: Time-based Media by Ethan Scarrow (GitHub @ EthansEpic64)
Maeda Clock:
I chose to recreate clock 5 because i really liked the idea of mixing the sophisticated, "you have to learn how to read me in school", traditonal methods of telling the time and the blatant, no time wasted, digital method of telling the time. This clock can be read by everyone from the generation of people who think the only 'second hand' in life are the cheap labels at the recycle botique all the way to the oldies who have been gatekeeping how to tell the time with their fancy quartz watches with no numbers and a face the size of an M&M. I didnt make it a working clock because of poor time management and the fact that I needed to get a start on my own clock but I recreated it the best I could using nothing but rects, fill and the rotate function.

Main Clock:
My clock is inspired by a car. The clock features a dashboard, 3 gauges which represent hours, minutes and seconds, some dashboard lights and a moving road infront of the imaginary 'car'. My clock particularly takes inspiration from my own car, a 2007 Honda Civic which features very similar blue gauges with white text and red needles. I chose to model my clock after a car because car's are my main interest and I thought it would be a unique idea that nobodies done before. My original idea was to have a 12-gear H pattern shifter that shifted between gears every hour, as seen in the sketch, but I found that to be too complicated and not cohesive enough so I changed the hours representation to a temperature gauge which also allowed me to tie everything together with a dashboard.

GAUGES:
The temperature gauge on the far left represents hours. The needle moves between '1' and '12' and when it reaches the end of '12' it resets back to '1'. I chose a temperature gauge because it is one of the few gauges used in automobiles that can get away with having only a dozen markers. The temperature gauge is smallest because there are fewer markings and bigger spaces between them so it is easier to read what hour it is at a glance. Accompanying the gauge are two dashboard lights, one of each is always on, marked 'AM' and 'PM'. These switch between each other depending on whether it is morning or evening, sort of self explanatory. There is also a redline on the gauge which goes PAST the 12. A redline can be found on real cars to indicate that the car is too hot when the needle is in the red area. The reason I included it and why it goes past the last marker is because I needed an excuse for the needle to rotate past the 12 allowing for the 59 minutes after every hour before it goes back to 1.

The speedometer gauge in the middle represents the minutes within the hour and has a range of 0 to 60, one rotation of the needle (going from 0 to 60 and winding back to 0) takes one hours. The reason for the number 0 being present despite not existing in time is because between '0' and '1' is actually the 59 seconds within the 60th minute. I chose a speedo to represent minutes as it is the only gauge which is usually shown with markings that are fully representative of the measurement (e.g the numbers on a RPM gauge are usually 1/1000 of what the RPM actually is). I chose for the speedo to be the biggest because that is accurate to real life due to it being more important for the viewer to know EXACTLY how fast they are going, i.e. information heirachy. 

The RPM guage on the far right represents seconds within the minute and has a range of 0 to 60, one rotation of the needle (going from 0 to 6 and winding back to 0) takes one minute. I chose an RPM gauge because it allows for precise measurements (one mark for each second) but isnt quite as big or important as a speedo but big enough to be read if needed. I included a redline on the RPM gauge for no purpose other than to be accurate to a real car where the needle will bounce off the redline indicating that the engine is at its maximum RPM.

BACKGROUND:
I chose to add a road in the background to further expand on the notion that the viewer is sitting in a car, out of my entire project, the moving lines on the road are the one constant that never changes. I did think about making it go faster the higher the kmh gauge was but that ended up being out of my scope for the project.
I added a dashboard to accompany the lights and to tie the whole thing together as one cohesive image. It adds context to the whole clock and wouldnt make much sense to not include it.

ALARM:
I chose to make my alarm a bunch of flashing warning lights. I did this because alarms are generally attention-grabbing and sometimes a bit frightening, and whats more frightening than ALL of the warning lights in your car flashing at you. I drew all of the symbols in code which took a long time but I am VERY happy with the results. The glowing effect was suprisingy easy to do. I also made the needles on the Guages spin around infinitely (not resetting) and I also made them go at different speeds and directions to add fuel to the chaos. THe lights also flash at different times and intervals to be panicky and alerting. The engine light comes on when you set an alarm but it doesnt start flashing until the alarm goes off.

COLOUR:
As previously mentioned, the colouring of the gauges is inspired by my own car. It is not an unpopular colour combo for gauges and almost everything else is simply the colour standard for its real life counter part. Indicators are almost always green, warning lights are orange and red and there are also the odd blue light. Almost all dashboards are grey and roads are the same, I didnt do a lot of creativity with the colour but I was trying to be realistic.

SUMMARY:
Overall I am extremely happy with the finished product. If I had managed my time a bit better I probably wouldve added a couple more lights on the dashboard like a High Beam light or a door opened light but those are minor details. I managed to include every detail and function that I wanted to include (and more) and my output has actually exceeded my original expectations. I think that my idea is quite unique and it works as a clock, albeit a bit slower to read than most. I will admit there wasnt much inspiration from how we as humans tell time or how we COULD tell time, it was more just a fun little creative idea that stemmed from my #1 passion (cars). I am slightly annoyed by the amount of blank space on the dash, as mentioned I would have filled it up a bit more with lights but I am hoping you can overlook that.
I am aware that I did not include any Map() or Array() functions. I didn't really encounter a need for them while making my project and I struggled to find a place to fit them in post-coded. Maybe it's more impressive that I managed to do what I did WITHOUT them(?).